# Evolutionary Poster Composer `(Evo-poster)`

**Evo-poster** is a computational design approach that explores Evolutionary Computation for the generation of poster designs based on user-provided input (both imagery and text).

Our approach takes inspiration from the highly algorithmic processes of letterpress design in [nineteenth-century print houses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letterpress_printing). During this era, typographers, in collaboration with clients, selected and composed typography, ornaments, and wood-engraved illustrations to fill a matrix. Design choices were very pragmatic, with condensed typefaces for lengthy sentences and extended typefaces for shorter ones. Important content was highlighted using bigger and bolder typefaces. This study establishes parallels between the historical typographer-client interaction and the current relationship between the computational system and the user.

In this version of **evo-poster** `(3.0.1)`, our approach considers aesthetic and semantic objectives alongside legibility constraints. The fitness of an individual is determined using a hardwired fitness assignment scheme strategy. We explore two strategies for managing constrained evolution, including the utilisation of stochastic ranking selection. Users can define the search space of the Genetic Algorithm, controlling the visual variation in evolved outputs. Furthermore, users can customise the evolutionary and evaluation processes through a dedicated interface by adjusting the system parameters.

In this work, we introduce an emotion recognition NLP method, combining lexicon-based and ML techniques. This method facilitates the identification of emotionally significant parts of input texts, dividing them into sentences. Moreover, users can visually characterise each emotion according to their preferences, incorporating this information into the design process.